---
layout: default
title: Home
---

## Welcome

Welcome to History 499: Social History of the Bicycle

Over the last twenty years, the bicycle as a form of transit and leisure has
seen a huge resurgence. Global cities from Copenhagen, to Paris, New York to
Washington, Mexico City to Buenos Aires have increasingly encouraged cycling as
an aid in reducing the social, health, and environmental problems caused by
automobile pollution, congestion, and infrastructure. Interestingly, utopianist
advocates of the bicycle as a revolutionary means of promoting individual and
environmentally-friendly mobility are looking to the one of the most persistent
of nineteenth-century technologies. In the 1880s and 1890s, bicycles did
revolutionize the social, gender, and physical infrastructure of the cities
where it was adopted. The cyclical return of the bicycle has a history. This
course will follow the social history of the bicycle by investigating its
technological, gendered, and cultural impact in cities around the world.
Bicycles carry a particular ambivalence socially and historically-- they are
transportation and sport, work and leisure, technology and icon, tool and toy.
This ambiguity opens a huge array of potential topics that can be analyzed via
the bicycle. Students will write research papers on some aspect of the
bicycle's social impact, in the United States or abroad.

The course website is divided into three different sections:

-   [Syllabus]
-   [Calendar]
-   [Assignments]

A fourth section, [Bicycles in the News], provides convenient access to a
collection of news feeds on bicycles today.

The [syllabus][Syllabus] section includes information on all course policies
and requirements. The [assignments] section includes information describing the
two forms of assignments we have for this semester, review essays and leading
discussion.And, of course, the [calendar][Calendar] section contains the
schedule of class meetings and readings.

Please take some time to read through the syllabus before the first day of
class. Note we have some suggested reading for that first class meeting.

  [Syllabus]: /499F2017/info/syllabus
  [Calendar]: /499F2017/info/calendar
  [Bicycles in the News]: /499F2017/info/news
  [assignments]: /499F2017/info/assignments
