---
title: "policies"
bg: grey
color: smokey 
fa-icon: bicycle
---

#### things to know
{: .text-purple}

# policies 
{: .text-purple}


![](http://chadblack.net/511S2012/media/images/disability.png) Qualified
students with disabilities needing appropriate academic adjustments should
contact me as soon as possible to ensure that your needs are met in a timely
manner with appropriate documentation.

**Attendance:** Attendance at all class sessions is mandatory. We only meet
once a week. If you miss one class, you've missed an entire week of class.
Discussion, group editing work, etc. that is done in class is indispensable to
successfully finishing your paper. If you will not be able to attend class,
please contact me ahead of time.

**Deadlines:** Assignments must be emailed to the instructor no later than the
beginning of class on the day they are due, or at some other specified time
established by the professor. It is important to be technologically savvy in
today’s world. Much of our communication occurs through email, including the
sharing of documents and other work product. Late papers will not be accepted
for any reason without prior arrangement. This includes technology problems.
You’re responsible for attaching your work correctly and sending it in on time.

**Cell Phones and Laptops:** Please silence our cell phones prior to class.
Please do not text during class. Laptops are allowed only for tasks that
require them, as specified by the professor. In other words, plan to have paper
with you. We'll only be using laptops for specific exercises. Based on 
the prevailing literature, hand note-taking-- both while reading and in class--
leads to substantially better educational outcomes. You are not required to
have a laptop in class, so feel free to leave it at home.


**Office Hours**: Students are strongly encouraged to speak with me outside of
class. The advantages of talking with me include: extra help on an assignment
or preparation for an exam; clarification of materials covered in lecture,
discussion of my comments on your work; discussion of this or related courses.
I am available during office hours on a first-come, first-served basis; if you
cannot come by during office hours, please contact me via email or phone and I
will be happy to set up an appointment with you.

**Changes:** I reserve the write to change this syllabus as the semester
progresses. This is not a contract, but rather a document to guide expectations
and clearly communicate weekly assignments. Please bring the syllabus with you
to our class meetings. Or, keep up with it on the course website.


