---
title: "schedule"
bg: grey
color: black
fa-icon: bicycle
---

#### when are doing stuff?
{: .text-purple}

# schedule 
{: .text-purple}

Reminder: pdfs are available in the Dropbox folder I provided over email.

We will divide each class meeting into three parts-- lecture, discussion, and
laboratory.

**Week One** --  Introduction (August 23)

> The very existence of the bicycle is an offense to reason and wisdom.
>
> P.J. O'Rourke [^1]

[^1]: Quotes in the schedule from Michael Carabetta, *Words to Ride By:
Thoughts on Bicycling* (San Francisco: Chronicle Books, 2017).


Lab: *Bicycle Thieves* (1948), as you watch the film, make note of every thing
 you think the bicycles in the film symbolize. 

**Week Two** -- The Global Bicycle (August 30)

> Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance you must keep moving.
>
> Albert Einstein

Read:

**Week Three** -- Bicycle as Artefact   (September 6)

> So perfect is the safety bicycle, in fact, that, if the rider had sufficient
skill not to interfere with its action, it will travel straight ahead and keep
its own balance.
>
> E.J. Prindle, Scientific American, 1896


**Week Four** -- Bicycle as Sport  (September 13)

> Of all sports, cycling is the one that requires the most perfect match of man
and machine. The more perfect the match, the more perfect the result. 
>
> Paul Cornish

Read:

**Week Five** -- Bicycle as Leisure (September 20)

>  If the constellations had been named in the twentieth century, I suppose we
>  would see bicycles.
>
>  Carl Sagan

Read:

**Week Six** -- Bicycle as Work (September 27)

> Get a bicycle. You will not regret it, if you live.
>
> Mark Twain

Read:


**Week Seven** -- The Bicycle and Space (October 4)

> Most bicycles in NYC obey instinct far more than they obey the traffic laws,
which is to say that they run red lights, go the wrong way on one-way streets,
violate cross-walks, and terrify innocents, because it just seems easier that
way. Cycling in the city, and particularly in midtown, is anarchy without
malice. 
> 
> *The New Yorker*, "Talk of the Town," June 9, 1986


**Week Eight** -- The Bicycle and Race (October 11)

Read:


**Week Nine** -- The Bicycle and Gender (October 18)

> Let me tell you what I think of bicycling. I think it has done more to
> emancipate women than anything else in the world. It gives womena  feeling of
> freedom and self-reliance. I stand and rejoice evert time I see a woman ride
> by one a wheel... the picture of free, untrammeled womanhood.
>
> Susan B. Anthony



Read:


**Week Ten** -- The Bicycle and Empire (October 25)

> It's not about the bike.
>
> Lance Armstrong


**Week Eleven** -- The Bicycle and Youth (November 1) 

> As a kid I had a dream-- I wanted to own my own bicycle. When I got the bike,
> I must have been the happiest boy in Liverpool, maybe the world. I lived for
> that bike. Most kids left their bike in the backyard at night. Not me. I
> insisted on taking mine indoors and the first night I even kept it in my bed.
>
> John Lennon

Read:

Watch:
<iframe src="//www.cbc.ca/i/caffeine/syndicate/?mediaId=2430244619" width="757"
height="700" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen text-align="center"></iframe>

**Week Twelve** -- The Bicycle's Future Past (November 8)

> Think of bicycles as rideable art that can just about save the world.
>
>  Grant Petersen

Read:


**Week Thirteen** -- Machine Body, Bodily Machine  (November 15)

> The bicycle is a curious vehicle. Its passenger is its engine.
>
> John Howard

Read:


**Week Fourteen** -- No class. Writing time. (November 22)


**Week Fifteen** -- Presentations (November 29)



**Final Paper Due




